# Project Architecture

This document provides a high-level overview of the architecture of the job control shell project.

## Directory Structure

The project has the following directory structure:

- `.github/workflows/`: Contains GitHub workflow configuration files.
- `bin/`: Contains the binary files generated by the build process.
- `images/`: Contains image files used in the project.
- `include/`: Contains header files.
- `obj/`: Contains object files generated during the build process.
- `src/`: Contains the source code of the project.
- `tests/`: Contains test files.

```bash
.
├── .github
│   └── workflows
├── bin
├── images
├── include
├── obj
├── src
│   ├── builtins
│   ├── parser
│   ├── run
│   └── utils
└── tests
```
## Source Code

The source code in the `src/` directory is organized into several subdirectories:

- `builtins/`: This directory contains the implementation of built-in shell commands. These are commands that are handled directly by the shell itself, rather than by launching external programs. Examples of built-in commands include `cd` for changing the current directory, `exit` for terminating the shell, `jobs` for listing currently running jobs, and `kill` for sending signals to other processes.

- `parser/`: This directory contains code for parsing shell commands. The parser takes a string of text entered by the user and transforms it into a data structure that can be executed by the shell. This involves splitting the command into words, recognizing and expanding variables, and identifying special characters that control command execution, such as pipes (`|`), redirections (`>`, `<`, `>>`, `<<`,...), and background operators (`&`).

- `run/`: This directory contains code for running parsed commands. Once a command has been parsed into a data structure, the code in this directory takes care of executing it. This involves forking new processes, setting up pipes and redirections, handling background jobs, and executing built-in commands.

- `utils/`: This directory contains utility functions used throughout the project. These are functions that perform common tasks and are used in multiple places in the code. Examples might include functions for managing memory, handling errors, or working with strings and other data types.

## Build Process

The build process is controlled by the `Makefile`. The build process compiles the source code in the `src/` directory and generates binary files in the `bin/` directory.

## Testing

Tests are located in the `tests/` directory. The `test_main.c` file is the entry point for running the tests.

## Continuous Integration

Continuous integration is handled by GitHub Actions, as defined in the `.github/workflows/main.yml` file, and GitLab CI, as defined in the `.gitlab-ci.yml` file.

## Docker

The `Dockerfile` defines a Docker image for running the job control shell in a containerized environment.